# 2149. Rearrange Array Elements by Sign

LINK : https://leetcode.com/problems/rearrange-array-elements-by-sign

**Difficulty:** Medium  
**Tags:** Array, Two Pointers, Simulation

---

## Problem Statement

You are given a 0-indexed integer array `nums` of even length consisting of an equal number of positive and negative integers.

You should return the array of `nums` such that the array follows the given conditions:

1. Every consecutive pair of integers have opposite signs.
2. For all integers with the same sign, the order in which they were present in `nums` is preserved.
3. The rearranged array begins with a positive integer.

Return the modified array after rearranging the elements to satisfy the aforementioned conditions.

---

## Examples

### Example 1:

**Input:**  
`nums = [3,1,-2,-5,2,-4]`  
**Output:**  
`[3,-2,1,-5,2,-4]`  

**Explanation:**  
The positive integers in `nums` are `[3,1,2]`.  
The negative integers are `[-2,-5,-4]`.  
The only possible way to rearrange them such that they satisfy all conditions is `[3,-2,1,-5,2,-4]`.

Other ways such as `[1,-2,2,-5,3,-4]`, `[3,1,2,-2,-5,-4]`, `[-2,3,-5,1,-4,2]` are incorrect because they do not satisfy one or more conditions.

---

### Example 2:

**Input:**  
`nums = [-1,1]`  
**Output:**  
`[1,-1]`  

**Explanation:**  
`1` is the only positive integer and `-1` the only negative integer in `nums`.  
So `nums` is rearranged to `[1,-1]`.

---

## Constraints

- `2 <= nums.length <= 2 * 10^5`
- `nums.length` is **even**
- `nums` contains **equal** number of positive and negative integers


##SOLUTIONS :
1. Brute Force 
Make two seperate arrays for negative and positive and add elements alternatively starting from positive one.
C++  CODE -
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> rearrangeArray(vector<int>& nums) {
        vector <int> pos, neg;
        for(int i=0;i<nums.size();i++){
            if(nums[i]<0) neg.push_back(nums[i]);
            else pos.push_back(nums[i]);
        }
        int n=nums.size();
        nums.clear();
        int p=0,ne=0;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
            if(i%2==0)
                nums.push_back(pos[p++]);
            else{
                nums.push_back(neg[ne++]);
            }
        }
        return nums;
    }
};
```

2.Optimal Approach:
```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> rearrangeArray(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n=nums.size();
        vector <int> ans (n,0);
        int pos=0,neg=1;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
            if(nums[i]>=0){
                ans[pos]=nums[i];
                pos+=2;
            }
            else{
                ans[neg]=nums[i];
                neg+=2;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```
In this optimal approach, we will try to solve the problem in a single pass and try to arrange the array elements in the correct order in that pass only.
We know that the resultant array must start from a positive element so we initialize the positive index as 0 and negative index as 1 and start traversing the array such that whenever we see the first positive element, it occupies the space at 0 and then posIndex increases by 2 (alternate places).
Similarly, when we encounter the first negative element, it occupies the position at index 1, and then each time we find a negative number, we put it on the negIndex and it increments by 2.
When both the negIndex and posIndex exceed the size of the array, we see that the whole array is now rearranged alternatively according to the sign.
